Type name: Image

Subtype name: ktx

Required parameters: none

Optional parameters: none

Encoding considerations: binary

Security considerations:

The ktx type is a binary data stream which contains no executable code that
could disrupt a client processor. There is no provision in the type
specification that would allow authors to insert executable code that would
present any security risk to a client machine. 

Because every item's length is available at its beginning, there is robust
defense against corrupted or fraudulent data that might overflow a decoder's
buffer. Also the signature bytes provide early detection of common file
transmission errors.

The ktx type may contain texture data compressed using OpenGL standard or
vendor-specific schemes. These compression schemes are designed so small
blocks of data (typically around 64 bits) can be decompressed in real time
into a small block of pixels (typically 4x4) during texel fetch. In such
schemes it is not possible for a small amount of data to expand enormously
because the level of compression is limited; the compressed size is
related directly to the number of pixels in the uncompressed image and
not to the content of the data.

The ktx type does not provide encryption of the data payload. Users or
applications wishing or needing to keep their images confidential must
overlay their own encryption on the ktx data during transmission.

Interoperability considerations:

The ktx type includes a field identifying the endianness of the machine
which created the data. Applications reading the data are expected to
check this field and convert the endianness, if necessary. The texture
data payload may be compressed using an OpenGL-vendor-specific scheme. In
this case, only devices or applications having a matching decompressor
will be able to display the data. The compression scheme is identified in
the ktx data so applications can quickly reject data using unsupported
schemes.

Published specification:

The KTX file format specification can be found at

    http://www.khronos.org/opengles/sdk/tools/KTX/file_format_spec/

Applications that use this media type :

Currently only etcpack (http://devtools.ericsson.com/etc). It is anticipated
it will be widely used by applications built on top of the OpenGL family of
standards, OpenGL, OpenGL ES and WebGL, as the means of delivering texture
data.

Additional information:

    Magic number(s): 12 octets
				 { 0xAB,0x4B,0x54,0x58,0x20,0x31,0x31,0xBB,0x0D,0x0A,0x1A,0x0A }
    File extension(s): .ktx
    Macintosh file type code(s):

Person & email address to contact for further information:

    Mark Callow (callow_mark at hicorp.co.jp)

Intended usage: COMMON

Restrictions on usage: none

Authors: Mark Callow, Georg Kolling, Jacob Strom

Change controller:

The Khronos Group (www.khronos.org), the industry consortium responsible for
standards such as OpenGL, OpenGL ES, WebGL and OpenCL.

